Now, let's look at the different open source, distributed data options that we have.
The popular ones are MongoDB Cassandra Ibn Apache Edgeways DB.
We've already discussed that we are going to use Cassandra, but now let's understand why we are going
to choose Cassandra.
In order to understand that, let's look at the architectural differences of these three databases.
The first differences in terms of schema MongoDB stores JSON documents in binary JSON format, Cassandra
stores data and column family format, but it provides an abstraction which is quite same as IBM's papers.
So it also provides Cassandra query language, which is quite close to Sequent so that the Cassandra
schema is quite close to IBM's schema.
On the other end, Edgeways uses quantum firmly schema.
The underlying schema in Cassandra is also called family, but they have abstract data to provide a
structured schema like IBM's schema, and we will see that what I mean by that.
Now, the second important difference is in terms of indexing in MongoDB, we have hash table like indexing
and then Cassandra VM has to be like indexing in its base.
We have B-3 like indexing, and this is where it becomes slightly different from MongoDB and Cassandra
living here, the way indexes stored in a tree like format.
So we can actually do range queries in Edge because we can do range queries in Cassandra or to a certain
extent, within a partition.
And we will talk about that.
But if you really need to do analytics and you're not doing worldbeat, then in that case, AD is the
right database because it is designed for long running analytical queries.
Now retired.
And the most challenging difference for us is in terms of the availability of these databases.
Now the MongoDB has got master slave architecture.
It's based on two master slave architecture, but Cassandra DB has got Master Master Architecture now
for master slave architecture in MongoDB.
What it means is that for a record, there will be only one master.
So if that master is, don't tell a new master elected out of replicas, MongoDB becomes unavailable,
at least with those records for which master is done.
In case of Cassandra, we see this there is no concept of master.
We can say that every node is a master in the Galactus handwriting.
So what that means is that we can write on any node.
And if a few nodes go down, then that doesn't affect Cassandra.
Neither from reading Cassandra nor nor on writing Cassandra tell a definite number of nodes that correspond
to current data available.
Then we can continue to write on Cassandra.
Another big benefit of this approach is that we can keep Cassandra nodes at a fairly large distances
so we can have Cassandra nodes in different regions, and these regions can synchronize with each other
whenever we modify another.
It can propagate those changes to other nodes so that Cassandra is pretty good.
We can actually use it in different locations, and it provides not only provides high availability,
but high degree of locality because a region.
Regional updates can go to that node, which corresponds to that particular region and whatever changes
were made in that particular region are soon propagated to other regions as well.
One thing to note over here is that in any database where there is a master master kind of configuration,
there can be right conflicts when same set of reports or same regard is being modified simultaneously
on different nodes.
Then, when the merge takes place, there can be a real conflict.
So in the very less likely event of those kind of occurrences, Cassandra has a WW rule which is last
right when so whichever record has the latest timestamp that overrides the previous records.
So that's good enough for our case.
We anyway, we will have to handle eventual consistency.
So this is something that again, we need to be aware of, although we are not going to get into that
discussion.
But this is something good to be aware of.
When we are using any database, we must have must have configuration so that we are now ready to get
into Cassandra.
So let's first understand this schema changes that will have to do for Cassandra.
So when we are moving from Postgres to Cassandra, what kind of schema changes will have to do?
And we will look at the code and then we will actually run our system with a Cassandra cluster.